RHOAIENG-21420: Adding configuration modules for Guardrails orchestrator (#672)
opendatahub-io/opendatahub-documentation: modules/guardrails-orchestrator.adoc

:_module-type: PROCEDURE

[id='guardrails-orchestrator_{context}']

= Deploying the TrustyAI GuardrailsOrchestrator service

[role='_abstract']

> Deploy the TrustyAI `GuardrailsOrchestrator` service.

Reviewer: Perhaps for a future release, but would be helpful to explain why they want to do this. Is this a requirement for other TrustyAI features?

.Prerequisites
* You have cluster administrator privileges for your {openshift-platform} cluster.

> * You have downloaded and installed the OpenShift command-line interface (CLI). See link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/{ocp-latest-version}/html/cli_tools/openshift-cli-oc#installing-openshift-cli[Installing the OpenShift CLI^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have downloaded and installed the {openshift-platform} command-line interface (CLI). See link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/{ocp-latest-version}/html/cli_tools/openshift-cli-oc#installing-openshift-cli[Installing the OpenShift CLI^].
```

* You are familiar with link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/{ocp-latest-version}/html/monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack#creating-user-defined-workload-monitoring-configmap_configuring-the-monitoring-stack[creating a config map] for monitoring a user-defined workflow. You will perform similar steps in this procedure.
* You have KServe set to `RawDeployment`. See link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_ai_self-managed/2-latest/html/serving_models/serving-large-models_serving-large-models#deploying-models-on-single-node-openshift-using-kserve-raw-deployment-mode_serving-large-models[Deploying models on single-node OpenShift using KServe Raw Deployment mode^].

> * You have the TrustyAI component in your ODH DataScienceCluster set to `Managed`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have the TrustyAI component in your {productname-short} `DataScienceCluster` set to `Managed`.
```

.Procedure

> . Define a `ConfigMap` object in a yaml file to specify the `chat_generation` and `detectors` services. For example, create a file named `orchestrator_cm.yaml` with the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Define a `ConfigMap` object in a YAML file to specify the `chat_generation` and `detectors` services. For example, create a file named `orchestrator_cm.yaml` with the following content:
```

+
.Example `orchestrator_cm.yaml`
[source,yaml]
---
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: fms-orchestr8-config-nlp
data:
  config.yaml: |
    chat_generation: <1>
      service:
        hostname: llm-predictor.<TEST_NAMESPACE>.svc.cluster.local
        port: 8080
    detectors:  <2>
      hap:
        type: text_contents
        service:
          hostname: ibm-hap-predictor.<TEST_NAMESPACE>.svc.cluster.local
          port: 8000
        chunker_id: whole_doc_chunker
        default_threshold: 0.5
---

> <1> A service for chat generation referring to a deployed LLM in your namespace that you wish to guardrail against.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> A service for chat generation referring to a deployed LLM in your namespace where you are adding guardrails.
```
"guardrail against" sounds a little strange and vague, but feel free to revert. Just avoid using "wish" - https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#w

<2> A list of services responsible for running detection of a certain class of content on text spans. Each of these services refer to a deployed LLM for text classification in your namespace.

> + **NOTE**: We highly reccomend using the https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_ai_self-managed/2-latest/html/serving_models/serving-large-models_serving-large-models#vllm_servingruntime_for_kserve[vLLM ServingRuntime^] to deploy your chat generation and detection services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ 
[NOTE]
====
We highly reccomend using the https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_ai_self-managed/2-latest/html/serving_models/serving-large-models_serving-large-models#vllm_servingruntime_for_kserve[vLLM ServingRuntime^] to deploy your chat generation and detection services.
====
```
Adjusted note format, but I'm wondering if we need this note at all. We should avoid making recommendations per IBM: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=information-claims-recommendations
Could this be added at the beginning as a note stating that this example uses vLLM?

Author: Yeah, I see that. Could we use "Consider using the vLLM ServingRuntime" instead of "We recommend" or I also like "This example uses...". I've taken the later suggestion here to say "This example uses" but I left it at the end of the example

. Deploy the `orchestrator_cm.yaml` config map:
+
[source,terminal]
---
$ oc apply -f orchestrator_cm.yaml -n $TEST_NAMESPACE
---

> . Specify the `ConfigMap` object created in the previous step in the `GuardrailsOrchestrator` custom resource (CR). For example, create a file named `orchestrator_cr.yaml` with the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Specify the previously created `ConfigMap` object in the `GuardrailsOrchestrator` custom resource (CR). For example, create a file named `orchestrator_cr.yaml` with the following content:
```

+
.Example `orchestrator_cr.yaml` CR
[source,yaml]
---
apiVersion: trustyai.opendatahub.io/v1alpha1
kind: GuardrailsOrchestrator
metadata:
  name: gorch-sample
spec:
  orchestratorConfig: "fms-orchestr8-config-nlp"
  replicas: 1
---

> . Deploy the orchestrator custom resource. This creates a service account, deployment, service, and route object in your namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Deploy the orchestrator CR, which creates a service account, deployment, service, and route object in your namespace.
```

+
[source,terminal]
---
oc apply -f orchestrator_cr.yaml -n ${TEST_NAMESPACE}
---

.Verification

> . Check the readiness of the orchestrator pods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Confirm that the orchestrator pods are running:
```
Slight rewrite, I kind of prefer passive voice here? But nitpicky, so feel free to ignore if you like! "Readiness" just feels vague when the status comes back as "running"

Author: I can see that. Thanks for the suggestion.

+
[source,terminal]
---
$ oc get pods -n ${TEST_NAMESPACE}
---

> .Expected output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example response
```

[source,terminal]
---
NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
gorch-test-55bf5f84d9-dd4vm                3/3     Running   0          3h53m
ibm-container-deployment-bd4d9d898-52r5j   1/1     Running   0          3h53m
ibm-hap-predictor-5d54c877d5-rbdms         1/1     Running   0          3h53m
llm-container-deployment-bd4d9d898-52r5j   1/1     Running   0          3h53m
llm-predictor-5d54c877d5-rbdms             1/1     Running   0          57m
---

> . Check the health of your detector and generator services by querying the `/info` endpoint of the orchestrator route. If a `200 OK` response is returned, the services are healthy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the health of your detector and generator services by querying the `/health` endpoint of the orchestrator route. If a `200 OK` response is returned, the services are healthy:
```
I didn't see /info in the example so maybe this is incorrect - feel free to revert if so

Author: Good catch cc @christinaexyou since she provided this example FYI
